We've now gone over
the problems statement
of our final project.
At first sight, it might
sound pretty complex.
But let's break it down into
smaller more
digestible pieces and
discuss how we can move into
the next steps to do the
necessary research and planning.
We've said that we want to find
some specific log lines
in the sy log file.
We strongly recommend
that you use
regular expressions to find them.
It'll be easier to extract
information you want that way.
To figure out the right
regular expression,
you can use a website
like Greg X101.com
which can help you
test your expression
and understand what's
going on with it.
Once you have a pattern
that you think and work,
try it out in a Python
interpreter to verify that it
matches the right lines
and captures the
right information.
After extracting the information,
you'll need to count
how many errors
are of the same type,
and how many info
and error messages
there are for a given user.
Can you think of what
data structure might
help you with that?
If you're thinking dictionaries,
then you're on the right track.
You'll want to use a couple
of different dictionaries.
One to account error messages and
another to count per user usage.
You'll then need to sort the data
in a dictionary's by
different criteria.
We looked at sorting in
the Introduction
to Python course.
Feel free to re-watch
that video and
reread the Python
documentation on sorting.
The output of your Python script
should be a couple of CSV files.
Each of them containing
the names of the columns
and the data in the order that
it needs to be presented.
Once those files are generated,
you'll need to call
the CSV html.py
script to create HTML
files based on CSV data.
You'll have access to look
at how the script works
but the key is to pass
two parameters to it.
The name of the CSV file to
read and the name of
the HTML file generate.
You could do this last step from
either a Python script
or a bash script.
Since the script will be only
calling commands
and moving files,
we recommend doing a bash.
Keep it short and sweet.
We recommend that you research,
plan and even write the pieces of
code all before starting
the actual lab.
Good luck. You've got it.